# Introduction 

[D. Mo Houshmand](https://mohoushmand.com)

Fascinated by the intersection between science and art, turbulence flow and quantum mechanics, led me into deep trouble by digging into both. In the following I will share how I got drawn into the world of Quantum Computers, from fascination of High Performance materials and High Performance Computation, that eventually led me into the quantum world and ambitiously hairy obsessed to build a quantum cmputers. With like any other subjects, building a Quantum Computer requires solid knowledge and extreme efforts which eventually led me into the Hardware of Quantum Computers.

1. The artistic part of it in how to prepare acrylic colours with certain viscosities preparing them ready to blend into unique pieces of art.
2. Secondly the mathematics behind, and the accociated numerical techniques - *Computational Fluid Dynamics* (`CFD`) and *Direct Numerical Simulation* (`DNS`), both computational techniques in numerical physics exclusively dedicated to soutions of the Navier-Stokes equations, either solving them directly or approximately.

Like most of my peers at that time I was a young, naive and an ambitious student of physics who still hadn't recognised or discovered the painful reality and self-realisation we all must go through sooner or later, the one that admits that we are not Einsteins. But even if any of us was an Einstein, we had no idea what the Navier-Stokes really was, besides being the governing equation of motion and the modern formulation of Newtons 2nd law. Neither did I know the importance of the N-S in so many other fields than Mathematics and Physics.

These sets of Partial Differential Equations that together with the continuity equation forms the N-S equations was discovered 2-300 years ago. They must be solved simultaniously for both the velocity and the pressure field, fancy speaking the vector-tensor field (that will be elaborated soonly in Part?). What's strange is that these deterministic by nature equations paradoxially describes stochastic phenomenas like turbulence. *The Existence and Smoothness of the Navier-Stokes quations* is still one of six remaining unsolved $€1M$ *Milleniunm Prize* problems proposed by *Clay Mathematics Institute*. The problem formulation is so hard that it litterally takes 3-5 years to understand what they even ask for and what the problem is really about 

To put it in some perspective, *Richard Feynman* tagged the N-S equations as the most important unsolved problems in classical physics. Also *Werner Heisenberg* who made some unparalleled discoveries and contributions in so many subfields of Applied Mathematics, Mechanics and Physics did his PhD thesis in Turbulence Flows with the N-S equations.He was accordingly asked at the late stages of his life, if given the oppertunity what he would ask God if he met him. Heisenberg again accordingly replied:

> "When I meet God, I am going to ask him two questions: why relativity? And why turbulence? I really believe he will have an answer for the first." - Heisenberg, 1972

The implications of finding a global solution to the N-S equations, if it even exists, are so profound that it would change the world as we know it. Until a breakthrough in Quantum Computer technology, the N-S equations remains to still be the single most computational costly equation to solve directly. The computational community and especially fluid dynamics practitionars have to rely on approximations and numerical techniques to solve the N-S equations and wait for a breakthrough in Quantum Computing or more probably Quantum Computers. 

My Idea was that no matter how small and or insignificant contribution I would have made to the scientific community and especially in the quantum realm, that would be something nonethless. Most impotantly I would have been both proud and grateful to have the luxury and opportunity to work with something I'm so passionat about. Maybe evem som minor insight I made would have made could be the missing puzzle for someone else. 

# The Rises and Falls of a Quantum Computer Startup

In this space I will share my insights and knowledge on cutting-edge technologies, and later my academic background in Applied Mathematics, Mechanics & Numerical Physics and how I retrained from Computational Science background to Data Science where I was introduced to Machine Learning, Natural Language Processing/Understanding/Generation (NLP, NLU, NLG), and later Deep Reinforcement Learning, and in 2017 discovered Quantum Machine Learning that I would bet my house on that it would dominate the AI world in the near future. 

Attempting to establish the first Quantum Computer company in Norway was a both exciting and a painfull journey where I gained invaluable lessons through tries and failures. At the end of the day no matter how much experience and insight I gained, I must unfortunately admit to have failed. But I don't takje it as a failure, rather growth and lessons learned by crashing multiple times. 

Allthough all the faile attempts was not due to my shortcoming but rather a combination of a jungle full of greedy investors with unrealistic expectations, people I involved that was in the game for the wrong reasons and maybe most crucially the timing of it. Of hinsight I have to take the full responsibility for many reasons, from overestimating my own abilities, competancy at time being where I demonstrated poor and naive judgements, lack of experience and being passive when conflicts between involved co-workers. 

## First attempt

My first attempt was in 2013 where I had loosely an idea of combining or utilising *graphene* as a base for topological qubits (more on this miss-judging later). At that time I had not near the competancy required nor a team to establish a QC company. I had convinced one of my IT friends to go for it and my arguments was the worse thing that could happen was that we made the worlds poorest and worse quantum computer with say 3 qubits. At least nonetheless it was a QC and something to build on. Howeveer my friend got cold feets and backed off when things started to get hot and since Oslo is not Silicon Valley to say at least, I had to throw in the towels myself. 

I had nothing near the competancy or experience to start even a regular computer hardware company so that was a totally dreaming which is not a bad thing to do but you can't fight Mike Tyson without having the strenght to even hold up your guards with the weight of the gloves. Anyway, there was nothing wrong with my drive to succeed at some point and was willing to do whatever it takes to reach my goals.

## Second attempt

My second attempt to establish a Quantum Computer company startup was in 2018. This time there was many morer complicated reasons why I failed to fuse my own composed team with another tech company called iProud which was backed up by xplorico invest and we where about to sign a deal with IBM. At that time I had been in contact with Peter Wittek from the University of Toronto through emails for a year under the light of his book on Quantum Machine Learning and its potential for data mining. We had loosely discussed some sort of cooperation to implement QML to stand out as a startup. At that time I could have bet my life that QML would dominate the ML world and soon *Quantum Data Science* would be new buzzword. 

I was initially reached out by iProud intended for a CTO position in an established 18 months health-tech startup where their plan was to create a motivational coach or personal trainer app that through Machine Learning and gamification would get better and better each with analysing pupilometry reactions, speach recognition and micro-musculatory feedbacks through both smartphone cameras and wearables.

iProud had already made a great distance and the reason but needed someone with formal competancy with at least an MSc, experience in Machine Learning and preferably Applied Behavioral Analysis which. The education psrt was mandatory to get that sought after **Innovation Norway** "stamp" which would open up possibilities for EU fundings. In the first meeting with the investors and xplorico I convinced them to go for the quantum world instead as I was convinced as mentioned earlier that QML would shortly dominate the AI world. 

Usually I'm a shy guy but of some reason I spoke out from my guts and had appearently impressed the both investors and CAO. Soonly after that meeting, a couple of days after, the CEO of iProud that couldn't be at that meeting due to ilness but heard about how I had convinced the investors called me to offer a 10% partnership in addition to a CTO role. It was a dream come true situation for me personally as I got free reins to compose and lead my own Data Science and R&D team in Malaysia since xplorico had allready a strong established relation with the Malaysian officials and the Malaysian Oil Fund. I was asked to make a QML presentation an animation for the Malaysian oil fund and soon to represent iProud as the CTO of the company in a meeting with some top ranked IBM employees at IBM Oslo. 

What a surreal situation from feeling down incapable and low self confidence since the job market was full of experienced engineers due to oil resession to suddenly sit in a meeting with IBM as the CTO of iProud. Prior to i Proud I had no idea what a CTO was and had to play along in the initial meeting and google what CTO was on my way home. I was so happy and felt so lucky to be in that situation and I was so eager to get started.  

### Second attempt - the fall 

Prior to iProud I had throughout the period between my studying MSc in 2011 and 2018 selectively picked a really strong and interdisciplinary team to some day start a company with that and I was sure that the chosen ones had synergies together to build a great and long lasting company. Around that time in spring 2018 I was still waiting for some of my key team members to finish their PhDs ranging from stem cell engineering (Aman S. Chahal) to neroscience (Samira Amini), we also had the likes of Rajee Sivam, brilliant minds like professor Tor Flå from university of Tromsø, Fredrik Krey Stubberud, world class mentors in my previous retired professor Jon Magne Leinaas, Institutes like Simula, Peter Wittek from University of Toronto to mention some. 

Of hinsight my plan was too bold and hairy - that was to in paralell build four independent departments to be merged down the road where the one was a Quantum Computer department, the second was an Artificial Intelligence Lab to later become an Quantum AI lab and the third was a Synthetic Biology lab to evolve into a Quantum Biology lab, and fourth one and maybe the most important one was a fin-tech department that was designed to deploy algorithmic trading with a sufficiently clever strategy and in combination of topic modelling Latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA), semantic twitter analysis, technical and fundemental analysis. The Idea was to hopefully be self contained in the near and far future and to be able to fund our own research and development.

The problem arose when iProud wanted me to sign a NDA or Non Desclosure agreement which I had to consult with my own team where they unanimously voted me to refuse signing as it was too rigid where all my ideas was to be owned by iProud for the next 5 years, and I wasn't allowed to work on any other projects or involve any others in any form or shape. However lucrative deal where I was under the gun in extreme pressure from my ex lawyers to pay her share of our appartment and also my family to just sign those contracts. I just couldn't let down my own team so I had to refuse with a heavy heart.

## Third attempt

My third attempt to establish the first Quantum Computer Company in Norway came a year later in 2019. And his time my team was ready although some of them still was working on their PhDs. Now I was so fortunate to have on board and backed up by a dream team full of talented and folks mnotivsted for the right reasons. But againg we failed badly due to partly friction between the business department, academic and technical department. But mostly because my own lack of experience as a CEO that I did not wanted to be in the first place because of all that administrative work that followed that I was not interested in at all.

The CEO position was unanimoously elected by the board and I had no choice to reject because it was a decleration of trust but however uncomfertable I was I needed to do my best until we found an appropriate CEO. I overestimated my leader skills. Surely I had the ability to motivate my surroundings but there much more into a CEO role than that. I failed to delegate appropriate work to the right labour and to communicate with the board, the investors and I was a too nice guy and shy of conflicts to handle employee conflicts. I was simply too passive and less proactive. Yes it was a steep learning curve and an extremely valuable experience. However a hurfully costly one.

We finally got a helping hand from Peter Wittek (University of Toronto). That would assist us by temporarily being a CEO, and with his influence and experience help us navigate in the jungle of investors, finding right labour, linking us with the right people with a chunk of the shares of our company. I was becoming overloaded, burned out ans totally empty of fuel. I wanbted to get back to the "floor" in R&D department with Quantum Computing and Computer development. 

Peter was a special person, a rarity so to speak. My encounter with him was in 2017 where I asked him a trivial question that was only a line or two and wasnt expecting to get any answer at all. Thw answer he gave just blew my mind, where I had to scroll and scroll and the end he asked if I was satisfied or if what I wondered was clearer now and I had to don't hessitate asking more. He was a genuinly fantastic person that took my breath away with his kindnes. He was an avid climber and adventurer that was on a climbing mission in Himalaya 2019 fall where an avalanch took him and his group. 

Probably the thoughest time of my life while waiting for the confirmation and news of his faith. It was a overly devestating hard time for not only his family and friends, but the small QML community as a whole since he was pioneering figure. In any case while waiting for official announcements, in a state of shock and disbelief, the pandemic hit us in the spring of 2020 and that was it! Investors backing of, and I was broke in many shape and form, the company dissolved even before starting. Againg left with a broken heart and broken dreams.

